processor/cascadingfilterprocessor/README.md, before:

# Cascading Filter Processor

Supported pipeline types: traces

The Cascading Filter processor is a [fork of tailsamplingprocessor](../tailsamplingprocessor) which
allows for defining smart cascading filtering rules with preset limits.

## Processor configuration

The following configuration options should be configured as desired:
- `policies` (no default): Policies used to make a sampling decision
- `spans_per_second` (default = 1500): Maximum total number of emitted spans per second
- `probabilistic_filtering_ratio` (default = 0.2): Ratio of spans that are always probabilistically filtered 
(hence might be used for metrics calculation). The ratio is specified as portion of output spans (defined by
`spans_per_second`) rather than input spans. So the default filtering rate of `0.2` and default max span rate of
`1500` produces at most `300` probabilistically sampled spans per second.

The following configuration options can also be modified:
- `decision_wait` (default = 30s): Wait time since the first span of a trace before making a filtering decision
- `num_traces` (default = 50000): Number of traces kept in memory
- `expected_new_traces_per_sec` (default = 0): Expected number of new traces (helps in allocating data structures)

## Updated span attributes

The processor modifies each span attributes, by setting following two attributes:
- `sampling.rule`: describing if `probabilistic` or `filtered` policy was applied
- `sampling.probability`: describing the effective sampling rate in case of `probabilistic` rule. E.g. if there were `5000`
spans evaluated in a given second, with `1500` max total spans per second and `0.2` filtering ratio, at most `300` spans
would be selected by such rule. This would effect in having `sampling.probability=0.06` (`300/5000=0.6`). If such value is already
set by head-based (or other) sampling, it's multiplied by the calculated value.

## Policy configuration

Each defined policy is evaluated with order as specified in config. There are several properties:
- `name` (required): identifies the policy
- `spans_per_second` (default = 0): defines maximum number of spans per second that could be handled by this policy. When set to `-1`,
it selects the traces only if the global limit is not exceeded by other policies (however, without further limitations)

Additionally, each of the policy might have any of the following filtering criteria defined. They are evaluated for 
each of the trace spans. If at least one span matching all defined criteria is found, the trace is selected:
- `numeric_attribute: {key: <name>, min_value: <min_value>, max_value: <max_value>}`: selects span by matching numeric
attribute (either at resource of span level)
- `string_attribute: {key: <name>, values: [<value1>, <value2>]}`: selects span by matching string attribute that is one
of the provided values (either at resource of span level)
- `properties: { min_number_of_spans: <number>}`: selects the trace if it has at least provided number of spans
- `properties: { min_duration: <duration>}`: selects the span if the duration is greater or equal the given value 
(use `s` or `ms` as the suffix to indicate unit)
- `properties: { name_pattern: <regex>`}: selects the span if its operation name matches the provided regular expression

To invert the decision (which is still a subject to rate limiting), additional property can be configured:
- `invert_match: <invert>` (default=`false`): when set to `true`, the opposite decision is selected for the trace. E.g.
if trace matches a given string attribute and `invert_match=true`, then the trace is not selected

## Limiting the number of spans 

There are two `spans_per_second` settings. The global one and the policy-one.

While evaluating traces, the limit is evaluated first on the policy level and then on the global level. The sum
of all `spans_per_second` rates might be actually higher than the global limit, but the latter will never be
exceeded (so some of the traces will not be included).

For example, we have 3 policies: `A, B, C`. Each of them has limit of `300` spans per second and the global limit 
is `500` spans per second. Now, lets say, that there for each of the policies there were 5 distinct traces, each
having `100` spans and matching policy criteria (lets call them `A1, A2, ... B1, B2...` and so forth:

`Policy A`: `A1, A2, A3`
`Policy B`: `B1, B2, B3`
`Policy C`: `C1, C2, C3`

However, in total, this is `900` spans, which is more than the global limit of `500` spans/second. The processor
will take care of that and randomly select only the spans up to the global limit. So eventually, it might
for example send further only following traces: `A1, A2, B1, C2, C5` and filter out the others.

## Example

```yaml
processors:
  cascading_filter:
    decision_wait: 10s
    num_traces: 100
    expected_new_traces_per_sec: 10
    spans_per_second: 1000
    probabilistic_filtering_ratio: 0.1
    policies:
      [
        {
          name: test-policy-1,
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-2,
          numeric_attribute: { key: key1, min_value: 50, max_value: 100 }
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-3,
          string_attribute: { key: key2, values: [ value1, value2 ] }
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-4,
          spans_per_second: 35,
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-5,
          spans_per_second: 123,
          numeric_attribute: { key: key1, min_value: 50, max_value: 100 },
          invert_match: true
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-6,
          spans_per_second: 50,
          properties: { min_duration: 9s }
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-7,
          properties: {
            name_pattern: "foo.*",
            min_number_of_spans: 10,
            min_duration: 9s
          }
        },
        {
          name: everything_else,
          spans_per_second: -1
        },
      ]
```

Refer to [cascading_filter_config.yaml](./testdata/cascading_filter_config.yaml) for detailed
examples on using the processor.

Commit message:

add info about possibility of exceeding rate limit in cascadingfilter processor

processor/cascadingfilterprocessor/README.md, after:

# Cascading Filter Processor

Supported pipeline types: traces

The Cascading Filter processor is a [fork of tailsamplingprocessor](../tailsamplingprocessor) which
allows for defining smart cascading filtering rules with preset limits.

## Processor configuration

The following configuration options should be configured as desired:
- `policies` (no default): Policies used to make a sampling decision
- `spans_per_second` (default = 1500): Maximum total number of emitted spans per second
- `probabilistic_filtering_ratio` (default = 0.2): Ratio of spans that are always probabilistically filtered 
(hence might be used for metrics calculation). The ratio is specified as portion of output spans (defined by
`spans_per_second`) rather than input spans. So the default filtering rate of `0.2` and default max span rate of
`1500` produces at most `300` probabilistically sampled spans per second.

The following configuration options can also be modified:
- `decision_wait` (default = 30s): Wait time since the first span of a trace before making a filtering decision
- `num_traces` (default = 50000): Number of traces kept in memory
- `expected_new_traces_per_sec` (default = 0): Expected number of new traces (helps in allocating data structures)

## Updated span attributes

The processor modifies each span attributes, by setting following two attributes:
- `sampling.rule`: describing if `probabilistic` or `filtered` policy was applied
- `sampling.probability`: describing the effective sampling rate in case of `probabilistic` rule. E.g. if there were `5000`
spans evaluated in a given second, with `1500` max total spans per second and `0.2` filtering ratio, at most `300` spans
would be selected by such rule. This would effect in having `sampling.probability=0.06` (`300/5000=0.6`). If such value is already
set by head-based (or other) sampling, it's multiplied by the calculated value.

## Policy configuration

Each defined policy is evaluated with order as specified in config. There are several properties:
- `name` (required): identifies the policy
- `spans_per_second` (default = 0): defines maximum number of spans per second that could be handled by this policy. When set to `-1`,
it selects the traces only if the global limit is not exceeded by other policies (however, without further limitations)

Additionally, each of the policy might have any of the following filtering criteria defined. They are evaluated for 
each of the trace spans. If at least one span matching all defined criteria is found, the trace is selected:
- `numeric_attribute: {key: <name>, min_value: <min_value>, max_value: <max_value>}`: selects span by matching numeric
attribute (either at resource of span level)
- `string_attribute: {key: <name>, values: [<value1>, <value2>]}`: selects span by matching string attribute that is one
of the provided values (either at resource of span level)
- `properties: { min_number_of_spans: <number>}`: selects the trace if it has at least provided number of spans
- `properties: { min_duration: <duration>}`: selects the span if the duration is greater or equal the given value 
(use `s` or `ms` as the suffix to indicate unit)
- `properties: { name_pattern: <regex>`}: selects the span if its operation name matches the provided regular expression

To invert the decision (which is still a subject to rate limiting), additional property can be configured:
- `invert_match: <invert>` (default=`false`): when set to `true`, the opposite decision is selected for the trace. E.g.
if trace matches a given string attribute and `invert_match=true`, then the trace is not selected

## Limiting the number of spans 

There are two `spans_per_second` settings. The global one and the policy-one.

While evaluating traces, the limit is evaluated first on the policy level and then on the global level. The sum
of all `spans_per_second` rates might be actually higher than the global limit, but the latter will never be
exceeded (so some of the traces will not be included).

For example, we have 3 policies: `A, B, C`. Each of them has limit of `300` spans per second and the global limit 
is `500` spans per second. Now, lets say, that there for each of the policies there were 5 distinct traces, each
having `100` spans and matching policy criteria (lets call them `A1, A2, ... B1, B2...` and so forth:

`Policy A`: `A1, A2, A3`
`Policy B`: `B1, B2, B3`
`Policy C`: `C1, C2, C3`

However, in total, this is `900` spans, which is more than the global limit of `500` spans/second. The processor
will take care of that and randomly select only the spans up to the global limit. So eventually, it might
for example send further only following traces: `A1, A2, B1, C2, C5` and filter out the others.

When the processor receives spans belonging to the trace for which the decision was already taken, 
it forwards them without checking whether the span rate limit has been exceeded or not. 
If a lot of traces lasting longer than the `decision_wait` time are sent, the rate limit may be exceeded

## Example

```yaml
processors:
  cascading_filter:
    decision_wait: 10s
    num_traces: 100
    expected_new_traces_per_sec: 10
    spans_per_second: 1000
    probabilistic_filtering_ratio: 0.1
    policies:
      [
        {
          name: test-policy-1,
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-2,
          numeric_attribute: { key: key1, min_value: 50, max_value: 100 }
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-3,
          string_attribute: { key: key2, values: [ value1, value2 ] }
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-4,
          spans_per_second: 35,
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-5,
          spans_per_second: 123,
          numeric_attribute: { key: key1, min_value: 50, max_value: 100 },
          invert_match: true
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-6,
          spans_per_second: 50,
          properties: { min_duration: 9s }
        },
        {
          name: test-policy-7,
          properties: {
            name_pattern: "foo.*",
            min_number_of_spans: 10,
            min_duration: 9s
          }
        },
        {
          name: everything_else,
          spans_per_second: -1
        },
      ]
```

Refer to [cascading_filter_config.yaml](./testdata/cascading_filter_config.yaml) for detailed
examples on using the processor.
